Meaning in life. Beyond acceptance, there is:

- Action and Purpose: Use your understanding to take meaningful action. This could involve pursuing goals aligned with your values, contributing to causes you care about, or creating something that expresses your unique perspective.

I am pursuing goals to make myself more free via financial independence. 

- Personal Growth: Continuously challenge yourself to learn, develop new skills, and expand your comfort zone. This can provide a sense of progress and achievement.

I am pursuing personal growth by focusing on my health, my finances, and my profession. This will contribute to my sense of progress and achievement.

One question is why get better at my job? And what skills do I want to learn that will actually lead me to career growth that I will find fulfilling?

Beyond my career, I need to find personal growth stuff that really makes me feel good intrinsically, not just something that makes me more money or something. I learned over the past year that work achievements can only take you so far, or at least can only fill your cup to a certain threshold. And work can also make it hard to focus on the big picture. Especially since I can hyperfocus and tunnel vision on things, it really needs to be something separate from work so I have a more well-rounded life.

- Relationships: Deepen existing relationships and form new connections. Meaningful human interactions can provide support, joy, and a sense of belonging.

My perspective on relationships especially at age 28 is quality over quantity. I have a good friendship with my old high school friends Jake and Scott who live far away but I chat with daily.

I also am good friends with my ex-girlfriend/lover of about 6 years and her new boyfriend. They are starting a brewery business and working toward becoming financially independent by making stuff they love. They both have PhDs in chemistry from Northwestern and I look up to them a lot. Their ambition is inspiring and I look up to them in terms of taking on big challenges, as well as for their intelligence and tenacity to stick to something. Of course it is my ex too, who I still have a lot of love for, so it really means a lot to me that we were able to rekindle our friendship even though we aren't romantically involved anymore. Honestly I don't know too many people that have done this so I am pretty proud of how this dynamic has progressed since at one point we weren't speaking at all.

That being said I do feel like I would enjoy being in a romantic relationship again some day. The issue just lies in the fact that I am not successful on dating apps, and I don't really know where I would meet women given my lifestyle as a remote worker/introvert. I tend to meet romantic partners through mutual friends most of the time, and I also flirt a lot over social media (this is looking back a long time ago now, since I haven't dated much outside of the person mentioned above since I was in college over 7 years ago. I am not really in a rush to find someone because forcing it isn't really going to help either. Finding someone I really like and someone who adds value to my life isn't going to be easy, but I am open to it. 

In the past when I have tried to date, I probably went on 10 different dates where there was no spark or no desire on my part or theirs to commit to anything. This process of meeting people and going on dates and getting to know them is really tiresome and low return on time and effort invested for me, since I haven't had any relationships that spawned out of it in a meaningful way. 

I did ask out a bartender I was a regular at about a year ago and went on a couple of dates. Ended up not working out but that is one of my close friends now. 

Beyond that, I have a few distant friends (people I know, really) in my current city but not many more. I think this is normal and I am satisfied. I really like my current "roster" and feel like the time I could spend expanding casual relationships would be more valuable if I spent it on my own personal growth, or developing some of these more important relationships I already have. That said, having a small network can be challenging. I have been willing to accept that tradeoff in the past but would be willing to reconsider this in the future.

My family is small, really only keeping in touch with my mom and dad which is easy and has gotten better over time. I feel like our conversations (especially with my mom) are kind of surface level considering these are the most important people in my life and always will be. I wish we could connect on a deeper level but we have a big generational and values divide that makes this next to impossible. If we get into philosophical territory or politics, I often find myself not enjoying their company as much because I end up feeling alienated and sad.

Creativity: Engage in creative pursuits that allow you to express yourself and process your experiences and emotions.

My main creative outlet is photography, and has been for about 10 years now. 

I really got into film photography over the past year, which has been a fun but really expensive hobby with the way film and processing costs have gone up recently. I think I am going to put that part down for now and focus more on digital.

Photography also brought back a menace in my life (my dating efforts also contributed to this): getting back on Instagram. I have since removed my presence from the platform, and retain the account just in case I want to reach out to friends on there. That said, I think social media and instagram especially has changed so much that I feel like I am shouting into a void on there. I really wish there was a better platform to share my work where people would see it, and perhaps I am overthinking it, but I really don't have a good experience on there because I feel like it forces me to consider "the algorithm" when I am making work instead of just what I find personally interesting visually.

I am also going to focus on learning about making prints, books, and physical manifestations of my work now that I have a photo printer. 

Mindful Living: Practice being fully present in your daily life, appreciating small moments and finding joy in simple pleasures.

I think I had a really good present mindstate back when I was in traverse city. My meditation practice was at its peak, and my desire to learn and focus was also at its peak. I think if I can get back into that flow, I can really improve my overall mood and enjoyment of life, and also be more productive. i was using the Sam Harris waking up app for guided meditations, but found it to eventually get stale. I think going forward I will just do timed meditations where I use the skills I developed from the guided course. Plus, that method is free whereas the waking up app is paid. 

Contribution: Look for ways to contribute to your community or society at large. This can provide a sense of purpose and connection to something larger than yourself.

Contribution to my community and society at large can be important, but I also feel a bit of animosity toward my community and society at large just because I have never felt like my community or society is particularly geared toward me. In fact, since I have ADHD and view the world through a different lens than most, I find my vision for society or my community is often divergent from the mainstream opinions. I used to be a political canvasser and activist and became kind of nihilistic about this kind of pursuit. No matter how good my intentions were, I felt eventually beat down by people's apathy toward things like the flint water crisis. 

These days I feel like working my job, paying taxes, developing myself, and caring about my loved ones I mentioned above is the way I contribute. Tending to the part of the garden I can touch. Grander scale initiatives and movements and organizations kind of make me sick

Exploration: Seek out new experiences, travel (if possible), or explore different perspectives to broaden your understanding of the world.

I did a lot of travel this year and did it all in my car--saw 25 states, camped in all of them, revisited the Pacific Crest trail, connected with my old backpacking. buddies, visited NYC for the first time, and many other highlights. It was amazing. It definitely did expand my perspective on the world and my life. That said, my travel bug is satisfied for now. 

Philosophy and Spirituality: Delve deeper into philosophical or spiritual practices that resonate with you, which can provide frameworks for understanding and engaging with life's big questions.

Sometimes philosophy and religion feel tired because overall as a method of producing knowledge, philosophy really has not come to any solutions or insights but has rather done a lot of work to define the problems in a unique and satisfactory way. At the end of the day, we've had a handful of influential thinkers throughout each century that prop up resonant ideas for the time, but these ideas really just seem like they rot on the shelf as they age. Much of philosophy is just reworking ideas from ancient religious texts or the Greek philosophers into new forms, and these problems we are trying to solve remain nebulous still. 

Physical Well-being: Prioritize your physical health through exercise, nutrition, and rest, which can positively impact your mental state.

This one I am focusing on hard--I have clean eating, rest, dental health, and exercise at the top of my to-do list. I purchased a couple dumbbells and a pull up bar which give me the ability to work out any time at home.

Legacy: Consider what you want to leave behind or how you want to be remembered, and work towards that vision.

This is probably the least important thing to me because legacy pretty much vanishes after a long enough time horizon. See the above views about the entire body of work done in philosophy.

That said, my long term goal is to build a small cabin in the woods on some land I aim to purchase. This is a place that I can improve and make enjoyable to future generations.

Gratitude Practice: Regularly acknowledge and appreciate the positive aspects of your life.

Probably something I could do more because I am always focused on efficiency and optimization. I should be more grateful that my life is as straight-forward and simple as it is today.

Resilience Building: Develop strategies to bounce back from setbacks and view challenges as opportunities for growth.

I think this is something I am very strong at, though one thing I could be better at is balancing my feelings of failure with resolve to grow instead of feeling dreadful and hopeless. 































