My goals from yesterday:

1. ~~Meditate~~
2. ~~Journal~~
3. Finish reports tests task for work
4. ~~Profit on Robinhood~~
5. ~~Build couch~~
6. ~~Clean up living room~~
7. Clean kitchen (dishes, trash, sweep floors)
8. Finish docs for car refi
9. ~~Read NYT~~
10. Reflect on personal values and long term goals

Today I fell short of my work goal. I was too focused on learning more about the markets and Tradingview, a charting platform I can use with my Alpaca brokerage so I can potentially connect strategies from Tradingview to the platform.

I really thin the process of writing and journaling is making me feel more calm and content and focused. I guess letting my ideas just swirl around and never processing them into a coherent thought or concept can definitely increase the anxiety I am feeling.

The goal I was most focused on was achieved, so I guess I can still frame this day as successful. The trade was SPY $584 call 11/19 for +166.21%/$365.00.

This put me in a good position to make an additional trade or two this week (probably going to focus on NVDA earnings tomorrow if the open looks good).

Having a bit of extra cushion in my finances is really going to help, because I need some extra income to pay my debt. Of course there are risks with trading and I could lose funds, but this money can also work for me and pay off a big portion of my debt if I play it strategically. I can afford to lose the money that is in there without diverging from the plan.

That being said, I really need to acknowledge that my work has been lackluster lately and I really need to focus hard on making progress tomorrow. And I also need to focus on making it a habit to work at least 2-4 Pomodoros a day.

Working more consistently in my day job is going to rebuild the atrophied muscles of hard work and discipline when it comes to programming work. If I have any hope at starting my own firm and consulting, I really need to regain my ability to work hard for extended periods. Beyond that, I feel like my skills are going to rot on the vine if I don't take my discipline more seriously. The downside of not having more direct supervision is I have to be more responsible for my end of fulfilling the work I am tasked to do. The reason I resent my managers a lot of the time is because I don't feel like I need them and that they are not on my team. Moreover I feel like they aren't helpful and using me to grow their career. That said, I was wrong that I would have the exact same drive to work by simply removing them from the equation.

All that said, it is remarkable that I have been able to keep the folks I work with satisfied with my work product considering I barely turn anything in week-to-week. Something tells me the incentives and management are working in my favor--their client foots the bill for me to be there, so as long as they can justify the total cost of the project to the customer, the details of what I am providing aren't super important.

The project ends at the end of the year and unfortunately it looks like I am going to have to work with my old boss again which sucks because she tried to get me fired without ever raising and issue with me directly. What a horrible person to work with.

I really am finding it hard to bear the idea that I will have to work with such an unskilled haphazard team after working on this job that is essentially no-show for so long. And I have put myself in a tricky situation by letting my skill growth slow down, because that makes me feel rusty going back to the other team or looking for a new job. I think in the new year my strategy will be to leave my current role and try to get rehired as a contractor at a higher rate. That said I don't think company will really lead me to the place I want to go, which is being financially free and working as an independent company.

Enough work talk. I really enjoy writing these entries. Again, after writing all of those ideas down and having to actually articulate them in plain language, they don't feel as scary anymore.

As far as reflecting on my long term goals and values, I feel like my goals are sound and match up with my values. Building the cabin, working toward financial independence, maintaining my fitness and health, and maximizing my freedom as an individual are all things that really matter to me. I have already felt progress toward all of those today by making money from my work, my trades, and also getting a solid workout in. 

It is amazing how much more tranquil I feel just moving around a few weights and getting some chores done. Tomorrow is going to be a solid day.


Goals for tomorrow:
1. Call Dad, it has been a while
2. Write at least 5 test cases for the reports section of the app
3. Clean kitchen (dishes, trash, sweep floors)
4. Finish docs for car refi--follow up with email
5. Explore Tradingview--pine scripting and integration with my golang app
6. Reflect on medium term goals (starting a business/freelancing, future career goals for the coming year)
7. Get UPS mailbox closed up and finished after work
8. Pick up misc groceries from the store
9. Remove all the cardboard and trash from the porch
10. Cook hamburgers and prep vegetables from fridge


--- 

Today:

I learned an interesting docker command that will be super useful to clean up my systems in the future:

```
docker system prune -a
```

This will basically remove all the containers, images, networks, and artifacts. Ended up freeing almost 3GB in my root partition, and as such I was able to download a big suite of updates for my system that I could not fit before this.


Goals for tomorrow:
1. [x] Call Dad, it has been a while
2. [ ] Write at least 5 test cases for the reports section of the app
3. [ ] Clean kitchen (dishes, trash, sweep floors)
4. [ ] Finish docs for car refi--follow up with email
5. [ ] Explore Tradingview--pine scripting and integration with my golang app
6. [ ] Reflect on medium term goals (starting a business/freelancing, future career goals for the coming year)
7. [ ] Get UPS mailbox closed up and finished after work
8. [ ] Pick up misc groceries from the store
9. [ ] Remove all the cardboard and trash from the porch
10. [ ] Cook hamburgers and prep vegetables from fridge