## Journal

Good morning. I spent a nice evening with Shobhana helping her with her business, she needed help moving a new fridge to create a kegerator.

We had a good discussion about why I feel like moving, and she pressed me to find out why I wanted to leave. I think it came down to boredom, but the more we talked the more I realized I was actually feeling restless and in need of some new scenery.

I have been working really hard for over 3 years now to repair my life after crashing out spectacularly and having to move back in with my parents.

Since then, I have not had the chance to do any significant travel or take any significant time off.

I have this feeling that I need to make a change in my life. I want to work for myself instead of working for a company. In fact, this was my main goal when I got off the Pacific Crest Trail back in 2019. Instead, life gradually got harder and harder and my depression grew to be unbearable. I hit rock bottom when I ended up $7,000 in debt because of my poor financial choices, with no car, no close friends, no girlfriend, no job, and no prospects for the future. This was a hopeless situation for me. 

When I finally got my first job working in tech, I fully sunk my teeth into working and progressing my skills. I became obsessed, working more hours than anyone else, doing my absolute best. This was driven primarily out of fear that I would fail and return to the state I ended up in previously. I was still really distraught over my relationship ending. When I started, I was earning a $40k salary, which was about the same pay as I was earning when I first graduated college 4 years prior. 

I worked my way up from $40k to $50k to $55k to $60k, switched roles from being a manager to being a technical leader and programmer, further honing my skills. Eventually I would negotiate my salary up to $75k and then $90k, and I felt like I was on top of the world. By this point I moved away from my hometown back to Chicago, and got a really nice apartment. I still don't feel like I deserve this nice of a place, and while it is within my budget, I almost feel like it is a waste on someone like me who only needs the bare  essentials. 

All of that being said, my life feels kind of boring and empty. This work is enjoyable and there are a lot of perks. In many ways I am extremely blessed to have the privilege to work from home and perform tasks for work that I genuinely find enjoyable much of the time. Up to this point I have also had lots of opportunities to learn and hone my skills in technology. All that being said, I feel like my opportunities to grow and learn have flat-lined, and my relationship with my coworkers have collapsed. I had a big falling out with my former manager, where we had a disagreement about how we should show up for each other. The company since hired a management coach who tried to teach her how to do her job, and eventually she was given less responsibility and was no longer my manager. The new guy is nice but he does not seem invested in growing me like the owner was before. 

More than anything, I feel like I am being ripped off. The company earns three times what I do on every hour I bill. Billable hours also set up the incentives such that we are best off doing the least amount of work per hour. I don't really understand how to get around this, since this is how the consulting business works. 

I've founded an LLC and have a business bank account, but my will to proceed and take the leap of faith to pursue this on my own has kind of dried up over the past couple months. I have to admit that negative emotions never really went away, but I was able to distract myself and push them down over the past few years because I was able to take pride in my work and derive some modicum of satisfaction from them. Despite this, the depression, fear, and pain were still there. 

Part of the reason I wanted to come to Chicago was to be around people my age, and be able to meet people who are like-minded, and have more of a community than I had in Traverse City. I have not really taken advantage of all the opportunities to foster that community since I got here. In fact, I feel like I locked myself in my room to work even more than I used to, because this became a comfortable pattern. Things like AI and other developments in the macroeconomic sense made me feel really anxious that I was about to lose my job, constantly. Waves of layoffs continue to affect the tech space. All of this stress has definitely weighed on me being new to tech and going through one of the hardest periods the industry has ever seen. 

I really like programming as an activity, but doing it for a company I don't like and people I don't respect is really harming my mental health. To get through the day I have to ignore a lot of negative feelings that are a part of me. Ignoring these feelings of doubt, anger, anxiety, and fear does not make them go away. 

I've recently quit smoking and have been working on tapering down on drinking and weed. Since I started doing this, I have realized these substances were just a crutch for me to ignore my everyday suffering.

Suffering is a part of life no doubt. The Buddhists are right about that. It is a fundamental part of life. But they were also right that this suffering comes from attachment, craving, and ignorance. 

Using this framework, it is possible that I have become too attached to my newfound social status and success. I have become attached to my identity as a programmer, a skilled technician, an expert in my field. I crave the pride and sense of accomplishment and fulfillment my work gave me earlier on, but the returns from my work seem to have diminished. 

Moreover, I feel that my experience with the past year or so has been ignorance of my own sense of well-being. My physical health has deteriorated alongside my mental. My shoulder constantly aches. I have been sleeping poorly. I have been eating poorly and not caring for my body, that is always secondary to time in front of the computer working on my skills both on and off the clock. 

I have tried finding another job many times over the past three years. I have sent thousands of applications, and have gotten to the final round in many interviews. However, none of these opportunities worked out, and in many cases I feel like everything went right on my end, there were factors beyond my control that resulted in me getting turned down despite a near-flawless set of interviews. This has been really discouraging, especially after interviewing people myself and seeing how unskilled the pool of applicants is. 

QA as a role in tech is really maligned and looked down upon. As far as programming jobs, this is considered the lowest of the low. So there is some hopelessness there as well, feeling like I will be pigeonholed into this type of role for the rest of my career unless I exert extreme amounts of effort to get better outside of work. 

All that being said, my feeling is that I do not have the energy to pursue my goals. I must admit at last that I am burnt out. And I am not burnt out because I am simply working too much. It is the cumulative result of my life experience ever since I got back from my cross-country hike on the Pacific Crest Trail in 2019. 

In 2019, I did not realize that I was still depressed. I got back but my mind was still out in the woods. I was trying to make money reselling things online that I bought on sale, clearance, and from thrift stores. I don't think I even made $1000 doing that despite a ton of effort. I also ran into a lot of issues and unexpected costs doing this. I supplemented my income working part time at REI and delivering food. This lifestyle really wore me down. I tried to date but I got scared when I started to become intimate with someone and felt like I could not live up to their expectations. 

In 2020, my worldview was shattered by the COVID-19 pandemic, when the world shut down and I was laid off. Eventually I got a job doing phone support, which made me break down in tears after getting screamed at by angry people taking out their frustrations on me. Eventually I went back into work where I risked my well-being and perhaps my life to serve people and provide my experience in the world to people hoping to pursue outdoor recreation. 

In 2021, after the vaccine came out, I finally broke free from my old job, took a trip to Mexico, and met Nico who had a huge influence on the trajectory of my life. He built a homestead in Mexico from scratch while working remotely as a programmer. 

Later that year, I rode my bike around the entire circumference of Lake Michigan. After that was finished, I was going to move in with my girlfriend at the time, but when I moved the first box of things over, we realized it was not going to work out. 

She helped me move out of my place and into my parents. At this point I was circling the drain. I spent the summer wallowing, working manual labor jobs, and feeling sorry for myself. Eventually I found myself up on a wobbly ladder inches from a 30 foot fall, catching blocks of concrete rolling down a roof at my head, and quit on the spot. 

At that point I knew I had to make a change. I enrolled in a data analytics program through Google, and started fulfilling the requirements to go back to school and get a bachelors degree. After countless hours obsessively studying, applying for jobs, and worrying about my future, I finally landed a role at my current company, where I have been since 2022 (basically the past 3 years). 

I sought out therapy, which I attended for about 2 years every other week. I learned some skills to cope like mindfulness, acceptance, non-judgement, and emotional regulation. The key piece of this work that I took away was the middle path (a key piece of DBT) which means balance and avoiding extremes. This was really effective for me since I had a tendency to catastrophize, assume the worst, and think in purely black and white when things are always a shade of gray. 

In this past year, I also got treated for ADHD, something I was suffering from for my entire life but only recently recognized was affecting me. Since then I have been able to keep my life on track more regularly than I had in the past, but getting on ADHD meds was only part of the puzzle. Depression was a symptom of ADHD, but it was also rooted in something more deep. When I got on meds, I felt briefly like my depression was gone completely because I could accomplish tasks more easily. However, as I have adjusted to the meditation, I noticed that I am almost back to my "set point" mentally, and have to be mindful that my executive function does not slip away. 

As I get closer to this extended time away from home, the end of my lease in Chicago, and my desire to move on from this chapter of my life working for my current employer, I do not feel like I am ready to immediately pivot to running my own business or looking for a new job. My judgement is clouded by negative emotions and feeling burnt out. 

I don't feel like humans are really made to work like this. It feels really unnatural to work 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year. In fact, for the past couple years, I did not even take all of my paid time off because I was so devoted to progressing my career. My feeling deep down is I need a break, a significant one.

Financially, I feel like I could make it work. I have some savings I could live on, and my life experience makes me feel confident I could live frugally and last a long time on the money I have saved. I do have a bit of credit card debt, but it isn't accruing interest and I should be able to pay it off before it does start accruing. 

My life is short, and I only have one. I do not want to be on my death bed regretting my decision to keep working despite the feeling that I am betraying my best interests by continuing this path I have laid out for myself over the years. 

After the trip, I have the opportunity to finish a big section of the Pacific Crest Trail that I skipped back in 2019 because of snow.

I got my PCT permit approved for the month following my time off. The question will be how I ought to handle getting that time off from my bosses.

1. Quit on the spot. This would allow me to use my remaining time off and be done right away, but would also burn the bridge presumably. This would also mean starting from scratch looking for a new job or clients for my business going forward.
2. Ask for the month off (unpaid). This would be a good way to make it happen but would probably not be allowed and also would put a good amount of strain on me financially. It is also unlikely that they agree to make this happen, especially after taking basically all of my PTO.
3. Keep my job and skip the PCT section until another time. If I did this I would have to be patient and save more money while I wait for another opportunity to make a big change.

Realistically, I will only need like $2000 to make this hike work, which I have. 


I have been watching this guy's videos and I feel like he is speaking directly to me.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ENZSYzszkWM


## Defining the Decision

### **Define the decision** 

"Should I take an extended break from work to focus on personal growth and well-being?"

### **Establish decision criteria** 

Financial stability
Mental health and well-being
Career progression
Personal growth opportunities
Life satisfaction
Future employability

### **Weight the criteria** 

Assign a relative importance to each criterion on a scale (e.g., 1-10).

Financial stability - 7 

- While this is valuable, I feel confident that I could find ways to be frugal and save money while I recoup from burnout and focus on developing my business. A brief sabbatical may be exactly what I need to hit the ground running when I start working on my business when I return.

Health and well-being - 10

- Mental health, physical health, and general sense of well-being are critical to me. Work is meaningless and harmful if it is constantly holding you back from being healthy and feeling content.

Career progression - 5

- I've made huge strides to progress my career over the past 3 years. I feel confident that no matter how long the break is, I will be able to pick up where I left off and progress in my career. That said, I never thought I would even have a "career," so every day I am grateful that I have the opportunity to work in this field and have a career at all. It isn't really personally valuable to me beyond the financial stability and small amount of fulfillment I get from being skilled in my work. 

Personal growth opportunities - 9

- A lot of my personal growth has happened in the context of my new career for sure, but lately it feels like that has plateaued and I need to shift my focus on life outside of work to continue growing myself personally. Particularly, I'd like to hone in on feeling well, aligning my goals with what I value on a personal level, and where my inspiration and desire lies. 

Life satisfaction - 9

- Life at this point is not satisfying. I remember feeling completely whole and worry-free on the PCT, and I think it would be easy to fall back into that pattern again. I really feel at home when I have my life contained in a backpack.

Future employability - 4

- At this point, I have started over in life so many times that this is almost irrelevant. I don't really see a world where I am unemployable after taking a bit of time off work. I feel like I would be able to overcome 

### **Generate alternatives** 

Assign a relative score to each alternative on a scale (e.g., 1-10).

Take an extended break (6 months to a year) 

- 3: this doesn't seem financially viable, nor do I feel like I need this much time off

Take a shorter break (1-3 months)

- 8: while I feel like this is the optimal amount of time, I still feel hesitant to take the plunge into this 

Continue working but reduce hours

- 3: This would keep me at my company and would not really give me the ability to completely reshape my future. I kind of need to be all the way in or all the way out, so this feels like a half measure where I would not be able to get anything done.

Change jobs without taking a break

- 2: The job really does not seem to be a problem, it is working for the man instead of myself, and also the work that goes into applying and interviewing feels unbearable at this point. 

Start your own business immediately

- 6: this would be a good place to start but I also feel like I need some mental distance from this work entirely so I can develop a vision and strategy, as well as aligning my spirit toward this goal. 

### **Consider constraints:**

Based on your analysis, there don't seem to be any absolute constraints that would eliminate the shorter break option.

### **Assess risks:**

For the shorter break (1-3 months):

1. Financial strain: Mitigate by careful budgeting and potentially finding temporary, flexible work.
2. Difficulty returning to work: Mitigate by maintaining professional connections and skills during the break.
3. Loss of momentum in career: Mitigate by setting clear goals for the break and your return.

### **Gut check:**

The shorter break aligns well with your expressed needs for recharging, personal growth, and aligning your goals. It feels like a balanced approach that addresses your burnout without completely disconnecting from your career path.

### **Develop an action plan:**

1. Set a specific timeframe for your break (e.g., 2 months).
2. Create a budget for the break period.
3. Inform your current employer and negotiate your leave.
4. Plan your PCT hike and any other personal development activities.
5. Set goals for personal growth and business planning during this time.
6. Schedule regular check-ins with yourself to ensure you're making the most of the break.

### **Set review points:**

1. Mid-break review: Assess how you're feeling and if your goals are being met.
2. End of break: Evaluate your readiness to return to work or start your business.
3. One month post-break: Review the impact of the break on your well-being and career direction.
4. Three months post-break: Assess long-term benefits and any needed adjustments to your career path.

This systematic approach suggests that a shorter break of 1-3 months could be the best balance between addressing your immediate needs for rest and personal growth while maintaining career momentum. It aligns with your high prioritization of health, well-being, and personal growth opportunities.


# Helpful YouTube comments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7ArpiaAn8Y&t=3s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kJ_YYCQ1W-Q

-Take Risks, don't let the fear of failure stop you from trying something new or something great

-Do things that genuinely scare you or that you're afraid of (Even little things like climbing onto a roof and helping to put up Christmas lights if you're afraid of heights or saying something to the cute cashier girl other than "hi" and "thanks") 

-Pursue an ambitious goal, one that a lot of people don't believe you can achieve (It doesn't even matter if you fail this because no matter what the pursuit of an ambitious goal will make you a better person and give you fulfillment) With that being said, do your best to succeed 

-Have a passion, basically this means to find a hobby that you enjoy so much that you will spend hours and hours getting better at it 

-Study history, pick a role model, and then analyze the traits of your role model and list the reasons why you admire them. Then start to emulate these traits in your everyday life and eventually you will become your own role model. 

-Don't ever quit something just because it's hard (You can quit a crappy job if it's not the right fit for you, but never quit solely based on the fact that something is difficult). Embrace challenges and look for opportunities to improve yourself mentally, physically, and spiritually.

-Never put yourself down. Try not to think negative things about yourself and especially never say them out loud. You will think more highly of yourself when you say positive things about yourself, at the very least avoid putting yourself down on purpose.

-Live purposefully. Have a direction for your life and if you don't already have one, make one. Decide what's most important to you and live accordingly. If you have a family or even a single loved one, your first priority (other than serving God if you're religious) should be to provide for them, to protect them, and to help them become the best version of themselves

-Develop Integrity. I can't even explain how much this increases your self-repsect. Be honest, be trustworthy, don't cheat (unless you're in a street fight) and live with honor. 

-Find a hobby that you're really passionate about and strive to become a master at it 

-Finally, probably the most important thing I can say is to think less about yourself. Think less about yourself but not less of yourself. In other words, think about other people before you think about yourself, especially your family and loved ones. If you're focused on helping them with their problems I can promise you that your problems will become less important and less troublesome. Look for opportunities to help others and make them feel better about themselves. Nothing lifts you out of depression better than helping someone out of theirs. 

I hope this helps. I realize that some people are genetically predisposed to having a harder time with depression, but I believe that there's nothing you can't overcome with a strong mindset. In addition, I strongly believe that going through depression and having such terrible lows actually gives you the capacity to feel even greater happiness and joy. The reason I say this is because when you feel genuine joy after being depressed for so long you can't help but feel grateful. 

The beauty of life is that we are meant to experience the full range of human emotions, from happiness to anger to jealousy to despair to joy. We couldn't feel genuine happiness if we never knew what it was like to be sad. If I could talk to whoever is reading this face-to-face, what I would say to you would be simple: don't quit. A quote from Winston Churchill kept me going in times when I thought I had nothing left, he said: "If you're going through Hell, keep going."

Everything in life can be and is meant to be an opportunity to make yourself better, and depression is no exception. Keep fighting, all of you are descended from warriors no matter what culture or country you are from. You wouldn't be here today if it weren't for the conquering spirit of your ancestors. Live a life that would make them proud. While most of us will not fight in physical wars, no one is exempt from the battlefield of life. Depression can be a battle every single day, every single second in some cases. Keep fighting, it will only get better. And the more you fight, the more you will gain respect for yourself. I've conquered my depression. Every now and then it will start to try and creep back into my mind but I don't let it. I destroy those feelings with action. I go lift weights, I go running, I listen to metal music, whatever it takes for me to regain my confidence. 

You can conquer depression, no matter how severe it is. That doesn't mean you'll never have days where you feel down, but it does mean that you'll have the strength to push through and do what you need to do as a man regardless of how you're feeling. Stay strong, stay hard, and fight like dragons  You're going to be very glad you did.
