
Some reasons I thought of for this:

1. Stayed up a little late (~11:15pm)
2. Worked out hard yesterday (I have DOMS and my arms are still pumped)
3. I ate an edible yesterday and felt super groggy in the morning
4. I ate a small breakfast and overate last night
5. I ate bad food yesterday and overdid the calories. 
6. I smoked weed and jerked off multiple times during the day

These habits all contribute to feeling relatively low energy and slow mentally. I also think my internet usage has gotten out of control, I need to reign it in on my phone usage and my social media consumption specifically. 

One thing I could improve is leaving my phone in the other room while I am working, and hide notifications from twitter/other stuff on my computer. 

That said, I am proud of the effort I put in yesterday to further my goals. I did 5 productive blocks of 25 minutes. Not all of this was focused on working cognitively, but it was a bunch of progress toward my balanced life of fitness, nutrition, organization, personal care, and work.

This journal is definitely a tedious pain, and I really don't like writing it. But I also think reflecting on my day is important. 

I talked yesterday about lowering my word count but I still don't think it is good to give myself an excuse to slack on this.

I feel like this stage I am in is critical and potentially the hardest stage as I am trying to rebuild my life--fighting off bad habits takes a lot more energy than just being on autopilot and following a rote routine. My hope is that things will get easier once my body and mind adapt to the stimulus I am giving it. It will just be very uncomfortable for a certain amount of time while I am adjusting to it. 

The important thing is that no matter how weak my mind or body might feel, I know the effort and reps and failures will all lead me to a better result after recovery, and I will be more resilient and capable once I am accustomed to working hard, thinking hard, and lifting hard. 

Watching weight lifting youtubers has been a nice change of pace after watching brainrot streamers and other low-nutrition slop. I think watching someone work hard in the gym is much more nourishing ot the mind than an xQc stream or a Destiny VOD. 

Thinking about what I want to work on, it is not advent of code, but I should force myself to do the problems. I think it would make sense to use python since I also want to write python for interview prep.

Go is definitely my favorite language to write, but I think it would be annoying to write in an interview because 1. they are doing OOP stuff 2. the typing system and error handling is super verbose and not super elegant. And typescript/javascript is just boring and I associate it with work.

Another idea that popped into my head is writing my own test automation framework in Golang. It might be stupid and pointless, because there are a lot of tools that exist, but I also think implementing AI into the equation and learning about visual parsing would be a good way to learn about topics I have not explored in the past. 

I took a small toke from my Pax herb vaporizor before I started writing and now that I am into it, the words are flowing much easier. Maybe my weed habit is actually effective self medication for ADHD, something I had been administering for a long time but never understood why I liked it so much. It slows me down just enough to stop overthinking and get down to business. 

After I finish writing this entry, here are some things I could do that would make me feel good:

- Shower and brush teeth
- Laundry
- Dishes
- Squats

Some work I could do:

- Write technology blog post
- Keep writing golang version of quicken API
- Update personal site

I used my photo printer for the first time yesterday and I am really happy with the results. I think this will be a great tool to make physical copies of my work, something I have been talking about for a while. 

I am so sleepy man wtf
🍅 Monday, December 02 2024, 6:34 PM
🍅 Monday, December 02 2024, 7:27 PM
🍅 Monday, December 02 2024, 7:56 PM🍅 Monday, December 02 2024, 8:26 PM