

Today I woke up, feeling exhausted. My rest lately has been sparse. One thing that's been on my mind is my lack of focus in my work. Thinking back to when I first started programming, the desperation, and the need to prove myself was at the forefront of my mind Now though the intrinsic motivation has faded. I find it difficult to focus on my work for more than 30 minutes an hour a day there's a lot of resentment from the discretion I had with my former boss. I feel like after that happened. I lost that spark inside of me the take away from that, and I'm not sure if I agree with this, but the Takeaway was no matter how hard I work it won't change people's opinion of me no matter how hard it work it won't change my opinion of myself. I talked about this in therapy when I was doing that how difficult it is to accept the hand you've been dealt in the choices you've made that led you up to this point And also except that you want something more or you want to change and I have been questioning the value for the purpose of why I do what I do every day.

I sleep in my mental state. I've been so off kilter lately. I know that after a good rest today, my mind can be transformed and I can re-orient myself toward what I want to aim at today however, I'm so exhausted that I can't even think straight. There will be a lot of typos in this because I'm dictating it to my phone instead of typing it because the idea of sitting down and typing these words it's just unbearable. I'm feeling really squeezed by debt and responsibilities and family and all the different things I want to achieve and focus on make up of well balanced, well-rounded life lack of structure in my days has made it even more overwhelming because I wake up late. I spend the first hour of work, just trying to build myself up and muster the energy to just do something is this burnout? Is this depression? I am proud of myself for making an effort to improve my health through physical activity and nutrition. I'm proud of my effort to seek healthier and more constructive coping mechanisms to deal with the suffering that's inevitable in life, but these lifestyle changes they don't have the same instant gratification of my old strategies, smoking weed porn, pornography, masturbation binging, thousands of hours of YouTube twitch kick Instagram over spending eating junk food seeking approval through dating apps, sir lying to myself about why I actually am more what I'm actually trying to accomplish or how things are really going I watched a video today and this YouTuber was saying the key is mental posture meaning orienting your mind in a way that's conducive to longevity and seeking not short term comfort but long-term sustainability.

It's very difficult to see where the future will take me I suppose one can never predict that.
