
https://scrapfly.io/blog/browser-fingerprinting-with-creepjs/

Creep JS is a browser fingerprinting project that collects a ton of metadata about your browser

This will be a useful tool to check if my automation is detected as such when I am running it



Today I drove home from TC and made it back to Chicago. I broke my weed fast today with a 10mg edible and about 4 puffs off the Pax. So long as I keep my consumption under control this week I feel comfortable returning this vice into my routine. I think having weed around is really nice in case I am struggling with insomnia. I think this is likely the reason I started to enjoy weed in the first place, and part of it was definitely self-medication for ADHD/autism/whatever is going on with me. 

I also reintroduced Twitter and it is already paying off I think. I did stay up too late one night reading and messaging people on there, but I found that in the interest of my "information diet" this website is better than anything else. It connects me with people doing interesting things. I get to have interesting conversations with people who are into the stuff I like and want to pursue. More than anything else, I think the thing that sold me was the article I wrote about in [[2024-11-29]] about reclaiming your attention. Ironically, the same place that I quit because it was too addicting and distracting (or so I thought) was the place that I would find the most helpful and poignant reminder of what I should be doing right now.

This practice of writing out my thoughts, goals, ambitions and struggles has definitely been super valuable. I think reflecting on what you have done and accomplished each day can help you string together the meaning in the bigger picture. 

I recommended Obsidian to Scotty and he is taking me up on it. This is such a fantastic app and I feel like the more I use it, the more important it becomes to me. I was able to reference back to ideas I had in [[gym]] which I saved in June knowing I would eventually want something to reference for a workout routine. 

Keeping little slivers of memory is the same idea as photography.

I am starting to think about what to get my family for Christmas and I definitely want to get them some framed prints of my photos, which means I will need to get my photo printer set up. 

I also want to go back through the archives of work I have created with some fresh eyes after taking some time off to let it all simmer.

Writing 750 words a day is the recommendation I got from james scholz so I think I want to try this out for a bit. I am not sure if this is too much to write, because sometimes I exhaust the things I want to say. But I guess just voicing my stream of consciousness is going to make that a non-excuse.

Some of the stuff I want to get done today/tomorrow:

[[Goals]]


I also need to come up with another way to handle todos in Obsidian. Keeping a global list seems a bit daunting, and everyone has their own system so it is hard to parse what the best method is. I will have to research this a bit.

I am excited to create seperate working and playing spaces, because this is going to make me much more optimized to get stuff done and use my time effectively.

I really want to start reading instead of consuming so much video slop content on youtube and twitch. I think the next book I read will be

1. Finish Blood Meridian
2. ~~Zero to One by Peter Thiel~~ 
3. Get cracking on Moby Dick

Actually checked myself there. Can't keep buying or ordering new books, need to finish the ones I bought first.

As far as programming projects, I need to also clear my plate on my personal website so I can start posting about what I am working on there.

I have been thinking about getting verified on X because the ads are annoying, the deal is sweet (1 year for $69 (nice)) and it would also probably improve my experience in the app. 

I put down the towel to jerk off and I am starting to feel horny so I am going to get after it now. Goodnight.

🍅 Friday, November 30 2024, 7:30 PM - Write Journal (only did 21/25 minutes)