Good morning. I have been working really hard these past few days getting back into the habit of coding after work.

Lots of good stuff happened this week:

1. Extended contract with Cadillac/Clockwork
2. Helped diagnose and find a critical security issue for the project, which I think helped win me some good will 
3. Commited code every day except Friday
4. Built the cabinet that I have been procrastinating forever
5. Cleaned up my office setup, my living room and more stuff like that. 
6. Got groceries
7. Went to the gym
8. Found out how to use my free dashpass subscription
9. Finalized my car loan refi
10. Based on the above work, possibly secured a bonus 
11. New PR on pullups 
12. Expressed myself authentically with my friends 
13. Reconnected with Nic, played a bunch of fun games   
14. Cleared off the garbage on my porch that had been there for ages 

I am now working on implementing the Model Context Protocol for Playwright. I need to figure out what my frontend experience looks like, since these tools the model can access may be limiting if I can't be more precise with what I am prompting it to do. 

One thing I know I can work on is a selection algorithm for locators. I know I can find the best more readable ones, and define a strategy that works well, so that will be the plan next coding session.

Dinner tomorrow with Christi at 6:45, should be a nice time. 

I think it made sense to take a break and pull back slightly on working on programming stuff this weekend. I can see the forest through the trees a bit easier now, and I am not feeling as tired and demotivated as before. Lots of good things to celebrate this week and I feel like I am on the right track. 