Journal:

Today I got a bunch of protien for my meals for the next week or so. Finished off a big 24oz sirloin with a good amount of fat and three pieces of bacon. 

My ear is really bothing me and I can feel this pulsing feeling. I did get a huge chunk of earwax out of there earlier but I am guessing it is either infected or I have even more floating around/packed in. I will give it another look as soon as I take anoher shower tonight.

Today's goals:

- [ ] Workout
	- [x] Biceps
	- [x] Triceps
	- [x] Chest
	- [ ] Quads
	- [ ] Hams
	- [x] Shoulders
	- [x] Back
- [ ] Brush teeth
- [ ] Meditation
- [ ] Advent of Code Day 1

I finished setting up my productivity room and it definitely feels better in here, like a place designed for attention and work. I also think having less stuff on the desk across the board makes the space feel more open and the ideas flow easier.

I set up my photo printer today and was really impressed with the results. I think this will be a great gift for myself and others. Just need to figure out the framing situation and buy some stock (4x6, probably).

I think 300 words right now would be a good minimum to shoot for, since sometimes I don't really have a lot to say. I am going to give myself a new target for journaling because really my main focus is working on programming and studying. 

It might be a good idea to work on a project that allows me to track my goals across the board, because simply writing them down is not a good way to track or gamify my progress.

I should look into the more well-known productivity gamification type apps and give myself some ideas of how I want my system to work.

As far as my priorities go, I think this is the order for the next week:

1. Finances: don't spend ANY money on anything. I already have all the food I need for at least a week, and I don't need any other supplies right now.
2. Work: I really need to lock in on my projects at work to ensure Clockwork stays happy and my progress over the past month or so doesn't reflect badly on me. Now that the election is over and my efforts to focus hard are in full swing, doing this work is going to be much less of a chore, because I have removed a lot of barriers to task initiation that were causing me grief prior.
3. Diet and exercise: Going for a walk or a bike ride (even a short one) will definitely change my mood for the better. I just struggle with initiating this. I think an outdoor walk will be crucial to getting that early morning sunlight that Huberman talks about.
4. Programming: I need to get back into the habit of coding and working on my craft. The craft of programming is just like a muscle--as you use it regularly and progressively overload your systems, the overall quality and velocity of the work will improve.

Earlier I discussed shortening these entries, but now that I am sitting here and typing stuff out, I think this is a good exercise for typing and also trying to dump out the brain.

I already got to 500 words.

I got back into weed and porn the past two days. Unfortunately abstaining was not as simple as I thought. Using these things in a healthy way always teeters on abuse/addiction, so I should watch myself carefully to ensure I am not sending myself down a regrettable path. 

Since 750 words only takes about 15-20 minutes, I will have to find a way to fill out this Pomodoro going forward. I suppose if this is my first one of the day, we can still call it a "working set" but also shorten the timespan and break to  recalibrate toward other things.

Tonight:

1P
- [ ] Work on Advent of Code day 1
- [ ] Check status of personal website
	- [ ] Take down photos
	- [ ] Update layout and post "about" page
	- [ ] consider the merits of starting an anonymous blog/website and posting links to stuff on twitter.
- [ ] Finish productivity workflow blog post [[Technology I use and like]] 
- [ ] Shower and ear cleaning
- [ ] Tooth brush
- [ ] Meditate
- [ ] Email inbox 0
- [ ] Plan out week with calendar (think it all the way through)
	- [ ] More planning = less thinking = better output
	- [ ] Remove the choice to slack off
	- [ ] 
🍅 Sunday, December 01 2024, 4:43 PM
🍅 Sunday, December 01 2024, 5:13 PM
🍅 Sunday, December 01 2024, 5:43 PM
🍅 Sunday, December 01 2024, 6:14 PM
🍅 Sunday, December 01 2024, 6:54 PM