https://x.com/LukasHozda/status/1860442337534468333

I am back on X and I have already retrieved some extremely high value information. My initial reason to exit for ideological and time-wasting reasons was clearly bullshit because of how much time I wasted in other areas that were lower value.

This article outlines a variety of techniques I practiced and worked well for me in the past. Unfortunately I fell off the wagon as time rolled on and I became less faithful in my ability to level up. The derailment of my will and determination was at its peak over the past 6 months, and now it is time to get back in the "attention gym" as I coined it and focus on getting stuff done that matters to me.

Part of the issue is not having a higher order principle or goal to aim at that then informs the remainder of my actions to achieve it. Now I feel like I do have that purpose and need to create the steps to sink my teeth into the work I want to get done. 

An outline of those strategies:

1. Create a working kingdom

This is a physical space devoted to productivity and work. No distraction devices or items are allowed to enter. Creating a context dedicated to work is super important because it allows us to have physically separate contexts for work and relaxation. Having a separate space for tasks and chilling makes it much easier to overcome the barrier to initiate the tasks. 

2. Pomodoro Technique

This is best technique I have found to train focus for extended periods by classically conditioning yourself to work. 25 minutes of focused work earns you a 5 minute break. The crucial piece which I neglected in the past is being strict about the breaks. I found once I got into a flow state, breaking that flow felt excruciating because I knew how hard it was to overcome that barrier of just starting. However, rewarding yourself with a break is the way this technique becomes effective, since it conditions us to believe focused work yields the reward of relaxation. Of course, we can eventually increase this timeframe, perhaps doing 50/10 or 80/20. But I doubt my attention really will allow for much more than 25 minutes given how atrophied it has become. Lukas notes that we should stick to the plan we created before starting the Pomodoros, without deviating. 

According to Lukas:

==In short: Start with 3-4 daily focused sessions of 10-30 minutes each (the duration should not vary, figure out how much you can handle). Increase duration only after maintaining this for a week. Log your completion rate.==

This is the other critical piece--logging the completion rate. This is another thing I did in the past which became super effective since it turned my productivity into a min-maxable game, effectively motivating me to progressively overload my attention in the same way you do lifting weights or running. 

3. Movement and Being Outdoors

This part I have already partially implemented. Taking an outdoor walk without distractions or extra stimulation would be a good compliment to daily physical activity and lifting. 

==Research in cognitive psychology shows that walking increases creative thinking by an average of 60%.==


The main goal for this tenet will be scheduling and executing a 10-30 minute walk every day.


When I get home, I am going to move my gaming PC out into the living room. I am going to only have one monitor. I am going to create a system to track my Pomodoros. And I am going to walk every day outside no matter how bad the weather. 


---

Some thoughts on Thanksgiving:

- My family is precious to me and I regret being so vicious to them on social media and in real life. I have come to the realization that if I cannot discuss politics or cultural issues with them, who can I talk to about these things?
- I am much farther ahead of the AI and technology knowledge curve than the average person or even the average programmer. Thinking with a future focus is what got me excited about this field in the past, and I need to re-open that file of my brain so I can restore my drive and desire to absorb information. 
	- James Scholz posted his productivity workflow and made me realize I was on the right track. He uses a similar system to me mixing analog and digital forms of note-taking and organization. He is working toward similar goals as me too--wants a rural property, lives frugally/minimally. He also makes a daily journal entry of 750 words in a stream of consciousness style, which is something I have done here today and find a lot of value in doing. 


