**Journal**

Worked through finances today, feeling good about where I am heading. Should be debt free by May and will have a nice emergency fund by November.

Should think about maintaining a separate travel account to budget for future trips.

Daily task list has been nice to use, I will keep this format going forward. 

This past month was pretty decent, I made a good amount of progress on my work tasks, personal projects, worked out a decent amount, got some photography done, worked on my personal website. I also journaled and used Obsidian more consistently than I normally do. 


Been thinking about this:
I used to be a really hard worker but then started getting harassed by my boss. The boss situation was resolved by switching to a different team and manager. However, I never regained my motivation to work hard since then, and I also have not been pushed to work hard at all in the new assignment. I have a lot of dissonant thoughts about this because I feel like my job was way harder than it needed to be before, and I can keep people happy with like 10 hours of work per week. Feels weird. I also wonder if I need to get a new job if I am kind of just going through the motions, like can it really be this good? I make 90k with insurance and time off, I am very grateful. But wonder what I am missing out on. Grass is greener type situation. 


Goals for this month:

1. Debt repayment, stay within budget and plan
2. 20 tooth brushes
3. 20 meditations
4. 10 gym sessions
5. Bed by 11pm 20+ times
6. 4 PRs at work
## Today's Tasks

**Morning**
- [ ] Tooth brush
- [x] Shower
- [x] Breakfast
- [ ] Meditation
- [ ] Journal
**Afternoon**
- [ ] Lunch
- [ ] Clean kitchen
**Evening**
- [ ] Exercise
- [ ] Dinner
- [ ] Reading
- [ ] Meditation



