I feel kind of remorseful about how I was acting at the choir thing last night, a lot of stuff was working against me having a good time, I was really uncomfortable, my clothes got soaked, I couldn't clean them, the show was kind of awkward, I was a little too stoned, the food wasn't really very good and extremely expensive for what it was. Overall the vibes were very off. Was trying to get into the show but my drunk friends were also talking a lot, making a lot of noise, and generally drawing a lot of attention to us when I was feeling like I wanted to just chill and sit back. I kept getting bumped by the wait staff and all the people milling around. They didn't check my ticket at the door. I bought a ticket for the show but they did not even look at it or reserve my seat. The venue was crowded and a little too intimate. The waiter never gave me a refill, then refilled my glass with water so it tasted weird with the leftover diet coke. All in all I felt really irritable and annoyed the whole time, and I was also worried that I was ruining my friends night out as a result. They asked me for a ride home and I just wanted to leave them alone, but that didn't really seem fair. I gave them a ride, they messed with my radio, and I told them I didn't really have a great time. I don't like being grouchy like that with my friends because I become kind of mean and not fun to be around. But this is kind of eating at me. I wish I hadn't gone.

Today I want to rest and relax, because did not rest well last night and I want to have a better day tomorrow. I have felt kind of sick and off kilter all day today because of the bad vibes from yesterday.

I also think it is important not to be too hard on myself and show myself some compassion. After all, I am a human, I have mental health issues, I am working hard on them, and I feel like I am still proud of who I am becoming and how much progress I have made.

Todo:

- [ ] Shower
- [ ] Laundry
- [ ] Hang curtains
- [ ] Setup PC in living room with new cords
- [ ] Move desk to the other side briefly just for testing
- [ ] 